🔥🔥 10 NLP Project Ideas to Boost Your Resume 🔥🔥

**1. Sentiment analysis for marketing**
This type of project can show you what it’s like to work as an NLP specialist. For this project, you want to find out how customers evaluate competitor products, i.e. what they like and dislike. It’s a great business case. Learning what customers like about competing products can be a great way to improve your own product, so this is something that many companies are actively trying to do.

To achieve this task, you will employ different NLP methods to get a deeper understanding of customer feedback and opinion.

Start project now → [Go To Project Repository](https://github.com/koosha-t/Sentiment-Analysis-NLP-for-Marketting)

**2. Toxic comment classification**
In this project, you want to create a model that predicts to classify comments into different categories. Comments in social media are often abusive and insulting. Organizations often want to ensure that conversations don’t get too negative. This project was a Kaggle challenge, where the participants had to suggest a solution for classifying toxic comments in several categories using NLP methods.

Start project now → [Go To Project Repository](https://github.com/Prakhar-FF13/Toxic-Comments-Classification)

**3. Language identification**
This is a good project for beginners to learn basic NLP concepts and methods. We can easily see how Chrome, or another browser, detects the language in which a web page is written. This task is a lot easier with machine learning.

You can build your own language detection with the fastText model by Facebook.

Start project now → [Go To Project Repository](https://github.com/iamaziz/language-detection-fastText)

**4. Predict closed questions on Stack Overflow**
If you’re a programmer of any kind, I don’t need to tell you what Stack Overflow is. It’s any programmer’s best friend.

Programmers ask many questions on Stack Overflow all the time, some are great, others are repetitive, time-wasting, or incomplete. So, in this project, you want to predict whether a new question will be closed or not, along with the reason why. 

The dataset has several features including the text of question title, the text of question body, tags, post creation date, and more.

Start project now → [Go To Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/c/predict-closed-questions-on-stack-overflow/data)

**5. Create text summarizer**
Text summarization is one of the most interesting problems in NLP. It’s hard for us, as humans, to manually extract the summary of a large document of text. 

To solve this problem, we use automatic text summarization. It’s a way of identifying meaningful information in a document and summarizing it while conserving the overall meaning. 

The purpose is to present a shorter version of the original text while preserving the semantics.

In this project, you could use different traditional and advanced methods to implement automatic text summarization, and then compare the results of each method to conclude which is the best to use for your corpus.

Start project now → [Go To Project Repository](https://github.com/edubey/text-summarizer)


**6. Document Similarity (Quora question pair similarity)**
Quora is a question and answer platform where you can find all sorts of information. Every piece of content on the site is generated by users, and people can learn from each other’s experiences and knowledge. 

For this project, Quora challenged Kaggle users to classify whether question pairs are duplicated or not. 

This task requires finding high-quality answers to questions which will result in the improvement of the Quora user experience from writers to readers.

Start project now → [Go To Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/c/quora-question-pairs/overview)

**7. Paraphrase detection task**
Paraphrase detection is a task that checks if two different text entities have the same meaning or not. This project has various applications in areas like machine translation, automatic plagiarism detection, information extraction, and summarization. The methods for paraphrase detection are grouped into two main classes: similarity-based methods, and classification methods. 

Start project now → [Go To Project Repository](https://github.com/wasiahmad/paraphrase_identification)

**8. Generating research papers titles**
This is a very innovative project where you want to produce titles for scientific papers. For this project, a GPT-2 is trained on more than 2,000 article titles extracted from arXiv. You can use this application on other things, like text generating tasks for producing song lyrics, dialogues, etc. From this project, you can also learn about web scraping, because you will need to extract text from research papers in order to feed it to your model for training. 

Start project now →[ Go To Project Repository](https://github.com/csinva/gpt2-paper-title-generator)

**9. Translate and summarize news**
You can build a web app that translates news from Arabic to English and summarizes them, using great Python libraries like newspaper, transformers, and gradio.

Where:

Newspaper3k (11.1k stars): scrape almost any news website
HuggingFace Transformers (48k): use state-of-the-art natural language models
Gradio (2.9k): build interactive web-based demos
Start Project Now → [Useful Link](https://abidlabs.github.io/Summarize-News/)

**10. RESTful API for similarity check**
This project is about building a similarity check API using NLP techniques. The cool part about this project is not only about implementing NLP tools, but also you will learn how to upload this API over docker and use it as a web application. In doing this, you will learn how to build a full NLP application. 

Start project now → [Go To Project Repository ](https://github.com/thecraftman/Deploy-a-NLP-Similarity-API-using-Docker)

[Source](https://neptune.ai/blog/10-nlp-projects)

